---
layout: default
type: session
title: Path to Hendenburgh 
parent: Book I
nav_order: 25.0324
region: Kryptwood 
timestamp: 2025-03-24
narration: [Razzy]
footer_content_no: Art by <a href="https://www.micahulrichart.com/">Micah Ulrich</a>.

---

{% include header_chapter.md %}

## Some avengers

[Hilda](../../directory/Sigisfarne/Hilda.md), [Razvan](../../directory/Sigisfarne/Razvan.md), [Yarrow](../../directory/Sigisfarne/Yarrow.md) and [Kalamos](../../directory/Sigisfarne/Kalamos.md) leave [Sigisfarne](../../directory/Sigisfarne/index.md) and travel east towards [Hendenburgh](../../directory/Hendenburgh/index.md).
Hilda searches for her family.

On the first night, they camp on a forest hill.
Hilda sees 3 creatures.
One of them is almost 2.5 meters tall, muscular and has bloody arms.
The other two have animal heads and fight the big one.

The two smaller creatures are victorious and leave.
Razzy follows them and points to her cravat, which they don't recognise.
The two creatures explain the forest was burned and they travel searching for the culprits.

## Arachnid people

The group continues East and is approached by creatures on eight legs and human torsos.
They look for a Construct and advise that it is dangerous.
It is a straw effigy with a furnace heart.

The group arrives in Hendenburgh after the third day of travel.
They are very tired.

## Epilogue 

When the group arrives in Hendenburgh, they see a village living in fear.
People shuttering themselves away and avoiding contact, buildings choked with vines as if the Kryptwood is trying to reclaim its land, and nothing louder than a whisper on the common grounds.
The proprietor of the local Galloping Goat Inn, the jovial Mrs Winstaple, is quick to take their money to allow them to sleep there.
She mentions remembering those strange mushroom sellers and that after their business failed to take off in Hendenburgh, she took pity on them and told them that if they were really in a tough bind, they might try their luck with the cunning women living in the Kryptwood, but to treat them with respect.
They left the next morning to seek out the women.