
The group opened the door the centaur creature was so excited for them to open, and all the centaur creatures rushed through it, their hooves fading into the distance as the ground beneath them changed to soft earth. The door on the opposite side had reliefs of fat individuals like the statue hanging above the trap door, with faces in different expressions. Drake and Razzy went through the door and tried opening it from the other side, but could not. They banged on the door and yelled and when the others opened it from the other side, it was established that the door does not open from the outside of the church and no sound travels. The door on the far side of the church room was the same.

Through the carved tunnel out of the church is a cave with a wall carving of an octopus eating a person and another tunnel that leads to another cave, deadend this time, with bioluminescent mushrooms that glow blue and grow on the walls and a marble statue of a Weeping Saint with red tearstains running from the eyes, as is the common symbolism of the faith. There are drag marks on the floor, as if the statue was dragged here.

Up the spiral steps in the room where the centaur creatures were, they found a corridor that ended in a partially finished mosaic. They discovered it was a false wall and went through it, finding themselves back in the false floor trap room. Wet footprints on the floor around the trap disappeared into another wall, and proceeded out into the cave where the crocodilian creatures were. They pushed aside the second false wall, being tipped off by the footprints, and found a corridor with alcoves in the wall full of small, delicate birdcages with tiny, desiccated bird bodies inside. Movement from the end of the corridor betrayed one of the crocodile things, which let out a yell in alarm, causing them to retreat back to the false floor room as the creatures swarmed them from outside the complex.

A brief but savage fight afterwards, they followed the corridor again to a metal door with a string tied around the handle - an obvious trap. They could not open the locked door however, and decided to leave the trap in place and come back later with some way of getting through the door. The lone corridor that branched off the one with the birdcages led to a pile of coins and gems, which seemed to move and slither when Yarrow poked it with her spear. With a hiss of compressed air, lamprey creatures lunged at them through the air and managed to down all of them but one - Razzy, who burned the last of them to death after a brief fight with everyone. As she picked up the rest of the group, they all had a rest, filled their packs with as much treasure as they could, and headed back to Sigisfarne, injured and limping but alive and significantly wealthier.
