Drake, Razvan and Yarrow travel to the Rabbit Inn while making a quick detour atop a hill to spy the lands to the north, seeing a savannah and even desert sands. A pack of pumas drinking from the stream follow them and lead them around the area south-wise, seemingly protecting the area.

At the Inn, the Innkeep, Ernest, says something big burrowed through the ground and killed many of the rabbits. He served strong liquor which Razvan and Drake drank from and got much dizzier than normal. Yarrow did not drink and interrogated Ernest about the drink. He gave seemingly normal answers and the three retired for the night with Yarrow checking on Drake who got suspicious after Yarrow asked if he feels drugged. He set a grappling hook behind the door so it makes noise should the door open and keeps his crossbow near him and then goes to sleep.

In the night, Ernest sneaks into Razvan’s room and as she wakes up he hypnotises her with his crimson eyes and she turns into a rabbit. She manages to yelp out before she turns completely though, and wakes up Yarrow, who rushes to her aid, and Drake who joins Yarrow outside the room to find Yarrow with the head of a rabbit, having looked at the creature disguised as Ernest and ducked out of the room just in time to stop turning.

Drake bangs on the door and yells for Razvan who cannot reply in her rabbit form, spooking the creature which escapes out the window. With no reply, Drake opens the door and sees it empty. Yarrow has written a message on the wall in the meantime with chalk to tell Drake that the thing has turned Razvan into a rabbit with its gaze. The wife comes up the stairs and held at spearpoint by Yarrow as she remarks that Razvan looks “wonderful” as a rabbit when questioned by Drake about what she and her husband are doing in this Inn. Drake shoots her dead with a crossbow bolt to the neck, too suspicious to let her live.

Drake and Yarrow leave Razvan in Drake’s room and search for the daughters, who they find in a room, confused and scared. Oswin arrives at the Inn, late to meet the other three, and knocks on the locked door, which Drake goes to open while Yarrow stays with the daughters.

Drake explains the situation and him and Oswin go outside to hunt Ernest. They find tracks under Razvan’s room’s window leading to the barn and tell Yarrow, then silently enter the barn and ambush Ernest as he is eating a person-turned-rabbit. After a quick melee in which Drake gets injured, a fatal blow to the creature’s bark-like body is enough to disable it, and Drake finishes it as it slumps down against the barn wall. With the creature’s death, the spell is undone and Razvan and the rabbits in the cages in the barn all turn back to normal, as well as Yarrow whose head turns back to normal. The daughters grow older by a decade at the same time, and as it turns out were under the creatures’ spell (as well as their mother, who Drake killed) and were being held hostage by it.

After freeing and feeding the people from the cages, they recognise Hilde’s parents among them and offer them to run the Inn since Hendenburgh is a ghost town. They agree with the group from Sigisfarne that they are welcome to have free room and board whenever they visit and agree to run the Inn with the daughters who were running it before the creature came into their lives.