
Sigisfarne, a village of agriculture and not much more, has had multiple crop failures as of late. One of the farmers claims he was walking along his fields recently when the ground gave way into a dug out cavern underneath that he had to climb out of. He heard skittering sounds flee from him as he retreated to his home and will burn the hole if no other solution is found. Four villagers are looking for adventure & investigate the mystery, Matheus (37 years old, canine handler, walks with the animals, wild, fearless & in control, statuesque, tolerant, vengeful), Cai (43 years old, archer, musician, athletic, tanned skin, curly hair, perfect face, livery clothing, gregarious, rude), Razzy (half-witch, humble, craven, athletic, rosy skin, curly hair, fae background & helps people in a way they don't understand) & Hilda (18 years old, mushroom forager, an affinity with darkness & follows the whisperings of the deep earth, scrawny physique, marked skin, braided hair, whispery speech, bloody clothing (from hunting animals)). They investigate a sink hole that has appeared in a farmer's field to the west of the village of Sigisfarne. The set off across fields in warm, cloudy weather with stone walls with fields opening up below them (shadows from the clouds shine on the growing wheat). They see movement but not sure if it is just cloud shadows. Matheus leaves the group to investigate & thinks he sees face wearing a mask with a cloth dress that looks like a bandit but the man ducked into cover going south. The adventurers continue & try to avoid the bandit.
In mid afternoon, the explorers arrive at the sinkhole following the directions the farmer had given them & the wind has picked up, shaking the wheat & blowing pollen from the trees to the south & south west. In the middle of the field, there is a sinkhole - the ground opened up & falls down 8 to 10 feet into cavern with sunlight hitting the hole (the cavern is bigger than the hole). Hilda tries to slide down into the earthen slope but the soil is too loose & she tries to brace herself but slips & falls & breaks the candle on her helmet & can no longer use it. Cai & Razzy try to lower Matheus down on a rope but he goes down too fast, slips & falls & his wolfsbane falls out of his pocket & is lost. Cai tries a slow & careful decent & Matheus tries to catch her but she also slips & screams loudly before quickly apologising. Razzy asks the others to catch her before her attempts to go down the steep, slippery slope & Matheus catches her in his strong arms.
The adventurers are in a claustrophobic tunnel & Cai lights her torch & Hilda takes her glowsnail & heads off down the smooth earth, wet tunnel. They come to a crossroads, to the left there is a sweet smell & to the right there is movement / commotion. Hilda peaks around the corner to the right to see if she can see anything but the tunnel is dark. They go to the left instead. They come to another crossroads:  to the right there is a sweet aroma with notice the walls of the tunnels have been formed naturally without tools (like an ant's tunnel). To left there is some noise, which Hilda carefully listens to & she hears the scuttling of many feet & two dim flame orange lights (not torches) appear & two dog-sized, aggressive stag beetle creatures with antlers with abdomen's glowing orange approach her quickly. Matheus tries to flee but gets intercepted by 3 short (third size of humans) with mole-like face with snouts & sharp teeth, beetle shell armour, beetle helmets & point their insect pincer spears at Matheus who exclaims "what in the ant eating hell is this?" & steps back defending the party with his shield; the creatures say "I wouldn't advise taking arms against us! I suggest you do exactly as I say if you want to leave here alive!". Razzy thanks Matheus for protecting her (he mutters, "I am just protecting myself!"). Cai exclaims "what the f..k are you?" & they reply "we will give the orders & you will follow us & do as I say." Matheus asks if the stag like creatures are theirs & they reply "everything here is ours". Three more  The party realise that we are out of our element. Matheus tries to escape & attempts to throw a net over one of the mole creatures but he says "Stop - cease right now!" but three mole-man stab at him spears & he takes a flesh wound in the shoulder from one of them. The stag-beetle creatures glow more strongly in a molten light & starts to hiss & squeal as in pain & it blows up in Hilda's face & she takes burning damage but shakes it off.
The second stag beetle tries to gore Hilda eyes out but she deflects the pincers but takes a slash along her arm. Matheus again tries to throw his net over the nearest mole-man & easily throws it over him & tangles him up in it then Matheus flees towards the exit. Meanwhile, Cai passes her torch to Razzy & pulls out her bow & arrow tries to fire an arrow past Razzy to hit a mole-man but misses her target & she exclaims "stay back or next time I will get you!" Hilda grabs her sharpened trowel & stabs the stag-beetle creature into its molten abdomen. It falls to the ground hissing & it tries to fly at Hilda but it falls on her trowel blade; Hilda flicks the stag beetle creature at the 3 pursuing mole-men. Razzy draws her iron dagger apprehensively & shuffles forward to stab a mole-man straight threw the top of his beetle helmet. The remaining mole-men shout "alarm, alarm!". The netted mole-man struggles fruitlessly to free himself as Razzy runs past him towards the exit. A mole-man charges towards Cai but she easily deflects the attack. Hilda gets mobbed by 3 mole-men, she takes damage but she throws them off. cai & Hilda hear the stamping of feet coming towards them. Razzy sneaks towards the mole-man & grabs the antler on his helmet & forces his head down to expose it's neck & she can smell its dank skin & Razzy vision goes blurry, she sees red & stabs him multiple times in the neck. Matheus moves back to the netted mole-man & stabs him with a dart causing him to instantly lose consciousness. Mathues screams for everyone to run. Cai is covered in blood from Razzy's kill & exxclaims "Holy s..t, Razzy! I didn't know you had it in you!"
Hilda flees past Cai & Razzy & she grabs the netted mole-man & puts him over her shoulder. Cai raises her bow & fires at the pursuing mole-men & grazes one of their shoulders. The three mole-men mob Razzy & she is walloped, she is sent flying landing flat on her face. The adventurers shout "Get the intruders!". Matheus drops his torch & shouts "Run, you fools!" & flees down the tunnel. Hilda runs with the unconscious mole-man over her shoulder. Cai follows & shouts "what are you doing, Hilda!" & starts pushing her down the tunnel. Razzy drops her dagger & starts to run down the tunnel, she then turns & stands facing towards the mole-men & pulls out her spell book & starts chanting. Suddenly a thicket of dense brush sprouts from the walls & floor encapsulating the mole-men & causing the tunnels to collapse. The mole-men shout in voices of pain, desperation & pain for the ones stuck in the vegetation. Matheus ties the netted mole-men to the shield & gently drags him back to Sigisfarne. The adventurers take the mole-man to the village council who are horrified & tell them to cast it out of the village due to their superstitious nature, they think it is a bad omen. One council man says the king should be notified & says that soldiers should be dispatched to deal with it. A couple of the councilmen are confused & stay silent.
Matheus asks the councilman about the Lord of Winter (Matheus has a letter from the past that he got from a dying hunter who told him to deliver the letter but Matheus had amnesia & does not remember). The councilman replies that Matheus that the Lord of Winter lives in the ~~north~~ east & that he should deliver it. The mole-man eventually wakes up & is terrified & fears for its life. The adventurers explain what is happening to the crops & that the mole-men seems to be harming them. The mole-man looks with steely eyes that man has taken too much of the forest & encroached onto the land. The villagers had chopped down trees to grow crops. The mole-men wanted to push man back & sabotage the crops. The mole-man smiles & he says "Our forefathers built the buildings that you have now built your village on top of. Soon the dark moon will come and then the vendetta will begin & then all you can do is pray!" Matheus asks if how old he is & the mole-man spits at him. Matheus ask what he will do if we let him go & he replies that he will join back with his mole-men & they will come & destroy the village imlying that we are completely helpless. The mole-men is reveling in what he is saying but he is holding something back. The adventurers tie the mole-men up whilst the decide what to do.
